Hey, recording we are recording yes.
Okay, thanks. Okay. Okay. So our core shell.
Is mostly there, as I mentioned, this is this course is kind of in construction under construction, uh, mostly because I'm adding some, uh.
Content that uses GitHub, because we're gonna be incorporating that into our new bachelor's programs. And so this is a pilot for that material and it's very possible that we're gonna just crash and burn on it.
But, like I said, if that comes to to happen, we're going to fall back to the old way of doing things, at least, for the 1st, couple of weeks here, but we want to try it tonight. I'm going to work with you tonight and just see how it works out. Okay.
We'll go through the lecture material and I've got, um, this is an old recording. That's why I'm not showing you. You're seeing stuff that you don't see on your shell, uh, practice exercise.
Uh, if I had this in there, this should be published, I think, hang on. Let me see, I think.
No okay. Okay. So what I've done is I put the practice exercise up on to GitHub.
But I think I can still publish this. Let me do that cause we will.
Want to look at it if it has the most recent thing in there.
No, that's old. I don't want that. Nevermind.
So, the most recent 1 is on GitHub and we're going to try to work that so that we can do it from GitHub. Um.
Does everybody have a GitHub account?
No okay. Okay. So we can go through and get that. That happens pretty quick. How about intelligent.
Jet brains. Okay. Bye.
No, it's intelligent from jet rates.
Yes. Oh, ultimately. Okay. So you did you get the license?
Okay, uh, I give you the site link, um.
Or do I give you a site link on? It's in the syllabus the syllabus is there. Now, by the way it was not there until about.
515 today, um, but it is there now, we can look at it real quick just to see.
Uh, the dates on some of the things might be a little off, but I think I've got most of them put together and the content is pretty close, although that might change as well, uh, learning outcomes all this stuff. We normally go through, uh, our Monday holidays that don't affect y'all.
The textbook I'm using is the same 1 used, and if you took professor brought us 2551 using that same textbook. If you took my job of 1 course, that was a recommended textbook for it. I could say that you really don't.
Have to use it, because a lot of material is gonna be supplemental and I'm already giving you that isn't in the textbook. Okay. We used to use a different textbook called a system called ramble by. I can't remember the author's name that was.
Pretty good, but it's starting to get kind of outdated and the rebel system was kind of expensive and and.
Uh, awkward for me to use. I wasn't crazy about using it for teaching with and so I just wanted to go to the flat textbook and I don't have a good textbook that goes into all the content that we're covering in this course. So I've got the supplemental documents from the old textbook that I can provide us PDFs to you and use that.
But most of the stuff's gonna come from the slides and stuff we work through as a hands on, because it's really getting your hands dirty on this stuff to learn how to do things, especially when we get to things like multithreading, internationalization and stuff like that.
Uh, we do have the Java tutorials and they go into a lot of this stuff.
Um, so.
I'm saying, uh, 8 here.
But I had 17 installed on the horizon system and, in fact, maybe on these systems too, and it should be interchangeable effectively. So we might be moving up to 17 as we go through this stuff. But 8 will work.
And Java, 17.
When you use intelligent, you can kind of say, make it backward compatible with 8, and you don't have to worry about the changes. There's some new features and a lot of new features that we're not really going to get into here. Because this course is really focused on, um.
And not any of that really, really new stuff since they've gone, you know, they've gone to like, a, a 6 to 6 month a 1 year release schedule where it used to be like, a 6 year release schedule. Okay.
I mean, has been around for almost 10 years now and so they're really moving and you just can't keep up. Now it's just like, you know, the basic Java and that's good. And then you have to learn the little.
Quirks of the new versions as you go through it, but we're gonna use 8 and, um, we're gonna use intelligent, ultimate in class. If you want to use something else you can for this class is not gonna be a big difference.
If you're taking the, the Java, EE, there's a big difference in that stuff.
So intelligent we found out, I found it as, like, the best to use for those framework operations, especially as we move into the spring framework versus the old stuff.
So, um, that's why I'm using that here and you can get your license here. If you go to this site, you can apply for it and they'll get it back to you pretty quick. And it's good for a year.
And I renew every year, and as long as you're a student, you can keep renewing it. And intelligent is like, huge in terms of the features. They offer all the products and stuff that are associated with that. So, it's kind of like an office license. It's going to be really useful for you.
Uh, obviously they're trying to get you.
Hooked on it, so that when you move into the industry, you'll be using it too. Right?
Yeah, toward the end, we're going to touch on spring a little bit.
But the job of E, course we use spring heavily now. Yes.
Good or bad? No. Okay. Well, that's what we do.
Okay, um, and then getting GitHub. So, this, uh, is.
Is new for us, we're, we're trying to incorporate these stuff because our industry partners really want us to be using this and teaching you how to use it. Some of you are using it comfortable with it. That's great. The.
Um, resource I'm using is called GitHub classroom.
Which means I can create a class which I've done for this class with a roster, which I'll be adding you to that roster. And then you're using private repositories to do assignments with your submitting your work.
And then I'm using those repository to look at the changes. And see what you've done, and the idea is that you're not out there on a public repository where everybody in the world, you know, looking at your stuff and stealing your solutions and all this stuff that other private.
So that only you, and I can take a look at them. So again, this is something new so I'm going to be trying it and There'll be some bumps, but hopefully we'll get through it.
And so we have GitHub, which is just a website you go and sign up for your account and I've asked use your student credentials. If you're used to GitHub with a personal account. That's fine. But I would ask that you do a 2nd account.
Which, uh, uses your student credentials so that it's consistent in my classroom roster.
Okay, for all your work in this class and then when you're done with the guys, you just delete the account if you want to, um.
And then the gift itself, it runs locally.
And these are the installers for the different platforms, but it should be on.
All of our lab systems, I'm gonna run to a horizon here real quick just to make sure.
Because I've had them add a lot of stuff to the Verizon system over the last year to get ready for.
The new application development stuff so I'm going to academic. I. T.
And you see, we've got intelligence on there.
We also have Jay graphs. It's got JD K.
But I think they moved to 17 now, also, they both loaded net beans, but we're not using that beach for this course.
Microsoft edge, no idea why that's there. We just don't want to get rid of that. Um, our studio, all these tools employees that you had to play with if you're interested in doing that, but going to the command line command tool.
I go to my documents folder so when you logged into to, um.
Uh, Verizon, you get a folder with your own ID in it. So you see, mine is D, a single that's my user ID.
So, go there, and then from there, I've got my documents folder.
And Nothing's in there, because it's horizon, I haven't put anything in there, but we can run get from the command line here. And if I run .
Please minus flyest version to see how good.
Okay, so I've got to get version 2.34.
Point 1, it might be on these classroom systems as well. I'm not sure how well, they keep those synced up with it, but I do make sure they keep the Verizon stuff updated with that. If I do Java.
Hold on my path, this version.
Uh, we have okay, so the job of 17 by default.
Go to program files and Java.
You can see, we've got both 8 and 17 installed and so if necessary, we can fall back to 8, but 17 should work in a backward compatibility mode to try that. We might get it by default. Anyway.
Okay, so that's the Verizon system now.
If you're not familiar with horizon, you have to remember that anything you do on this will go away after you log out.
So, if you set up a repository locally here, and do some work on it, you need to make sure you push it back up.
To get hub before you log out, because otherwise you'll lose all your changes. So that's all. It's really important to Verizon.
Okay, so back to the syllabus, see what else we got going on here and we may add stuff as we go on.
We find something cool that we want to play around with. It will try.
Um, the assignments, this is my standard template for the assignments idea. We have a practice exercise. We have graded assignments.
Review quizzes these are.
Content from the slides as well as, um.
Uh, job stuff I mentioned up here in the outcomes, none of the outcomes from in the, in the description.
That's a good way back up again to the top.
Find it I thought I had in the catalog. Yes, not.
O, okay, well, I do have it down here in the calendar. I thought I had a description as well, but I do also include some, um.
Oracle Java 8.
Certification material and the quizzes, which are just challenging questions regarding the language that dig a little deeper than.
Gustavo my job 1 course. Okay. Which had some pretty challenging questions there on the language and this is going further and covering more content. Uh, not that it's enough to really prepare you for that exam.
Because that's a tough 1, I mean, is tough enough and is like.
Next level tough, but you got to have the to get there anyway and so it'll just kind of reinforce that if you do this. And so every night you see a question.
Asking more of a language oriented saying, versus a, uh, course, content oriented question.
And as always, if you have any questions about those who get stuck on something, you can email me. And I can work through it with you that you can take these as many times as you want to try to get the highest score. And then we've got a midterm.
And you'll be doing some coding of both the midterm and the final.
Um, so again, this is just standard template for my course.
Of course, uh, Hello when you go through it so the calendar I mentioned might be a little off. We have a couple of nights. We're not going to meet.
And so they don't have to be or you do these stuff online.
Up here in the 7 on July 13th, and then July, 27 at a conference for a workshop at a conference for both of those. But I'll provide material for you to work on on that.
Um, and then these due dates, I haven't scrubbed them.
Some of them might be a little off, for instance. Uh, uh, well, the final exam. That's right. 817.
But, uh, if if there's anything off it, it's only gonna be off by a day. So, here, and I'll take a look at it and try to fix it. But I think I got, em, it was just a real rush job when I was getting everything, put together to get this uploaded. So you can use it.
And then standard grading 900 to 1000 for a.
8 to 900 for B and so on, um.
Late work now, if you've had my courses, you know, I'm kind of strict on late work, but for this course, this is much more relaxed, you know, if you need a little extra time or something.
Let me know, and I can work on that with you, but it's not gonna be, uh, especially because we are gonna be working through some things with a new content is not gonna be a hard and fast due dates on some of this stuff.
So, I'll be very, uh, open to, to helping him with those.
And that's about it for this my standard grading rubric.
You know, your stuff needs to run, need to comment, you dent dent and all that stuff.
Okay, so any questions on what you've seen of the syllabus so far.
Are you standard.
That's it with you after a couple, like.
Lastly, so.
Please wait for a meeting. I, for summer, we don't do office hours. It's just like, email me and say, can we meet it? Okay so it's, it's just by, you know, let me know what an appointment, whatever you call it.
But we don't usually run regular office hours during the summer.
Yeah, be 12, right?
As does professor brought his Python course. Awesome.
Choose wisely.
Okay, so let's see what else we got here, we got the Windows 8, the, if you haven't installed that, but again, we might just use the 17 that's loaded on here. Uh, programming, assignment rubric.
And then we have module 1 so module ones got a few things in it.
Um, review quiz, of course.
This GitHub assignment so if you read it, this is how.
This thing is supposed to work, and I have no idea what you're going to see when you do this. But this link is supposed to be.
The way for you to get to the assignment, and this is just a no due date work at your own pace for the whole semester to go through GitHub fundamentals, get hub offers this.
To instructors as something you could put in your courses for people to learn GitHub. I have no idea if it's any good.
I haven't been through it. Have you done it? Okay well, then there you go right? I didn't put a due date on it. Go through it. And, you know, if it's good I.
Uh, if I can figure out how to get to it myself to go through it, I'm going to do that because.
Uh, okay, well that's yeah, and that's all pretty much all we need.
Get jump, get get dive, get.
Yeah, yeah.
So, I've got that and so once you accept it, it's supposed to populate in my.
Course that you've accepted it and then you're in my roster. So 1 way, you know, that you should accept that just take a look at it. I've also added this get quick reference because this is the stuff that we'll probably need to do the things that we're going to do with it tonight.
If we do it, uh, this week, if not tonight, uh, just some hints and things that we'll do.
And I'll go through this with you to get that out there and then there is.
The greater program is and this is another 1 where there's a link and so this is the 1 where you need to go through and what's out here at this link is a template repository.
And so you're going to create your own repository that will have the files.
Or it's supposed to have the files in it from this template that I created in the template there's the solution to the practice exercise, which I'm going to show you tonight. Okay and you're gonna, you're gonna add to that.
You're gonna add some features to that application for the greater assignment and then just.
Commit those changes and push it back up to the repository. Then I look and that's how I grade it.
If everything works as I'm hoping it does, okay if we find out that it just doesn't work in or not. We can't get it going. Then I'll just give you the assignment. And then, you know, you can do it normally, and just submit it as, uh, attachment to the assignment here.
But hopefully, if we get this going, this will be like, establishing the precedent for the next 5 years for our programs and I can point to y'all as saying Yeah and these students had no problem with that. I don't know why you can't get a work in. Right? So.
Okay, so we'll go through this when we get to it, uh, later on tonight.
And that's pretty much for that module and then you can see the content recovery files streams next week, multi, threading, generics networking. This is really cool. The content, and this course is really cool. Okay.
Networking creating a server and a client and communicating over the network to it. Uh.
Database is a little bit in 2551. we'll dive in a little deeper for that. You did a little bit of FX. We're gonna dive in deeper on that.
Uh, internationalization, which I think is totally cool. And I did this in my actual career where you're actually, uh.
Generalizing your code so that it can be distributed to different locales.
And so you write it such that okay, we need this in French. We need this in German, and we need this Chinese, and we need our Mandarin or whatever. And so that's a really cool feature that we can do and go through that as well service.
And this is kind of getting into the E, course stuff that we do is just the basis. And again, this is in 200,551. we'll do a little bit more here. Phases is the user interface for E beings and persistence. We'll talk about that again.
Stuff we do on the job at E, course and more depth is something that is really unique. This allows you to communicate with.
C and C +, plus programs or libraries. I use this a lot because I worked on hardware.
And you can't interface with directly with hardware from Java, right? It's it's writing in a virtual, uh, the the VM, and it doesn't have a way to talk to a board, you know, a device driver on board or something.
So we had to write a lot of code that would run in C language.
Typically, they would interact with the hardware and then we'd use Java with a J and I interface to get to.
Those boards through that ceiling interface. So this is a kind of cool thing. And in fact, a lot of stuff in Java.
Uses this for the VM, the virtual mission itself, because it has to interact directly with hardware. You just don't see it.
And then Jason, so everybody is familiar with Jason. Maybe did we talk about it in 2151?
Maybe this is the Python course, but we talk about it here. This is 1 of the biggest, you know, data interchange formats that we use.
To bring objects, download them and and pass around the network and stuff.
I, if we get this to this or not, I'm not sure this is again that.
Anything that we, that's left over and maybe the content.
Okay, so professor brought it says, you know, Python, not 2551. okay well, then we'll cover Jason in this course and there are libraries we can use to read and do things with Jason from Java.
All right, so that's the basics of what we're covering.
So, let's go ahead and just jump in and start talking about this stuff.
These slides, we might end up finding some stuff that's outdated. I haven't looked at them in a year or so cause I taught this last year. Um, but it's still.
Uh, usable content. Uh, the assumptions we have going in here is that you're familiar with the basics. Okay the Java language primitive data types.
If statements, loops, methods, arrays.
And the basic oh, concepts you're talking about polymorphism them and we're going to do a little review of this stuff.
You can create a an application from scratch. You can use an.
Uh, you're interested in learning about advanced job while you won't be here if you weren't. Okay. And again, if it happens that you're doing something that I'm not present for, that you'll be able to learn those given the material to do that.
Um, if necessary, we can work in group to do some things that's more with. We do a lot of, uh, group work in there. And then you're kind of a reading code.
Because as I've shown you already for your graded assignment, you're reading my code for a solution and then changing it. Okay. And that's I tell my students this is very rare that you write applications from scratch these days anymore. You're almost always basing it on.
Somebody has done something else. I would say, probably 70 to 80% of coding. These days is not starting from the beginning. It's starting from somewhere somebody else left off and then picking up and changing it modifying it and doing that. So, you gotta get get good at reading other people's code.
Okay, doesn't say you can't make fun of their code and, you know, say this is really ridiculous, but then you can fix it. Right but you do look at a lot of other people's code. So.
But he can't say that about Mike until after this semester.
Okay, so, on the 1st, things we want to look at is exceptions.
We pretty much know how to do an exception and a program I'm assuming and I'm going to go ahead and go to horizon. Right?
To be honest. I haven't tried this on intelligence. I need to make. Sure that this stuff works as we. Go through it. I'm gonna bring up intelligence on horizon and I like using horizon because I'm always starting from the same environment in these classrooms. I never know if there's little, you know.
Breadcrumbs left from other installations or other people that have done stuff on them. Uh, 1 of the I. T, folks get in here. So Verizon I know is always starting from the same thing and everybody's working for the same base. And so, that's what I typically like to use it for.
I mean, I'd use it on my system. I got everything loaded on my system. So I don't want to go there because it'll all work for me. And then it won't work for, you.
So, that's why I like starting on horizon here. So when you get in here, you have the user agreement you just confirm it.
Check it and either sand or don't send it it doesn't matter.
And then you have to wait a few seconds what it brings up.
The banner title screen, and then you get the license thing and so Here's where you have your authentication from your jeffrey's account. And so I'm just going to put in my email.
And my password, and then I'm going to activate.
And you got to do this every time you log in the horizon, unfortunately, but it's still.
A reasonable licensing scheme that they use.
And once you're there, you just hit continue and then it brings up the.
And so we'll start with a new project, and this is where you have to fill in some things. Okay so we're doing Java and you see, it's using Java version 17 by default.
Now, I can go in here and.
See, the selection oh, here, I could select.
This other for 8, I'm just going to stick with 17 and use my job at 8 code and assume it's all going to run. If I have problems, I'll back out to 8, but I'm just going to stick with a default for now, go to 17.
And so from here, then you do a next.
And you can create a project from a template, or you can just create a blank project. I'm going to create a blank project and see if it works.
And I'm just going to call this, uh, test.
Exceptions okay, and you can see down here where it's putting at users my user ID.
Idea projects, which I could change if I want to and then test exceptions, which is the name of the project I give and I just hit finish.
And then I'm in the project now you get this tip of the day.
They have some really cool tips, but it's also annoying. So I usually just hit don't show tips and again, this only works for the current session. Next time you log in you got to reset everything and yet I close that out. I don't want to code with me.
So, I click out of that, and we got some stuff that's still updating here.
It can be a little slow down. Here you can see is indexing the K.
Which is supposed to help speed things up eventually after you get it done.
K. experimental features. I don't care.
And effects, outing, exit, adding of a lot of stuff in here.
All right, and you can also set your background and your colors here if you want to change it. Um.
This is the, what's new I'm just going to bail out of that and so I get my dark background.
So, if you, if you look at your project over here, you can see my project name test exceptions and you see this dot idea folder.
It has some stuff in it, like, get ignored to tell get not to load things and then it's got a source folder.
And that's where the source code will go. Okay. Now, when I click on that is 1 of your project structure. So it looks like we need to fill some more stuff in here.
Let's see modules.
I don't think I need to add that much to this, though. I'm going to try to just skip it and just go and build the code and see what happens.
I'm going to go to file and new.
And I'm going to find okay, so a lot of options here.
I want you to deal with a Java class, right?
I give it a class name. I'm going to call it just exceptions.
Same as the project name.
Hey, and it's a class it enter.
And it gives me a little template here for the class public class test exceptions. And this is under my source folder over here, which is where we want it to go.
When we get into actually, you know, larger applications.
We're using a build system called Maven.
The intelligent, typical uses, we're not doing it here.
But it will have a source structure that is pretty standard where you have a source folder and then you have a test folder.
And when we do unit tests and stuff, that's where those tests go.
Um, right now we're just going to keep the source folder. We'll build it and we'll see what happens when it shows up for that. So, let's just do a basic exception here. Um.
We'll do a main method and Intel J. is really good about.
Do an auto fill stuff I want to see if I can remember how to increase the size of my font. There's always a special code.
Let's see.
Uh, I don't remember how to increase my phone size.
There's probably a key key sequence for it.
But I don't remember off the top of my head right now. If I figure that out, I will get it. So you can see it right now it's kind of small.
Okay, so I'm going to do a main method here public static.
Void main string.
Arts, and I'm going to open a file in this.
Source folder, I'm going to just create a simple text file. If I go with my file Explorer.
And I find the folder, let's see if we go to documents.
Do you think, okay, my user ID.
Here we go and everything's in this idea of projects test exceptions.
Source okay, I want to create just a simple text file in here.
With a notepad new.
It's file and I'm just going to call it. Hello?
Text and just put a string in there.
Hello, right and what I want to do is read this file and just print out the contents of the file when I read it.
Now, to read a file, if you remember, I need the scanner class.
Java, you till scanner.
And see, if I remember how to do this, it's going to be.
Scanner se equals new.
Scanner and.
See, is it file source.
Pass source.
I'm trying to remember a new file.
Hello.
Okay, I'm kind of winging it here. Um, I'm just gonna open the local folder and.
I get that right probably not like that.
It's probably turning it road for a reason.
I'm gonna have to look this up.
Started all right. Okay. Uh, okay. Java.
Scanner.
We need a text file here. We go Stack Overflow.
I just need a syntax. Okay. New file in the name of the file.
And then scanning with the file. Okay well, that's just a little bit different. The order. I did it. Let's see what happens.
Okay, so file, uh, file equals new file.
Hello dot text and then down here, I'm just going to pass in the file. It's really pretty much what I did.
He was just trying to build it and see how it goes.
Alright, alright, I'm gonna hit Bill Bill project.
And here we get a little status. All right. Can't find the file. All right, I'm missing an import.
I've got to get reacquainted with intelligent, but there's a way you can just basically have it do the imports for you.
Not coming to mind right now. I'll just do Java.
Dot IO dot file, which I believe is where that is.
Looks better, eh okay, so.
Making progress here really wish I could make this fun bigger.
Um, why is the secret key code for that?
Troll something scroll wheels just something scroll wheel.
Well, you'll keep playing with it's easy to figure out how to make the phone bigger because it's always the trickiest part. So I've got it almost there.
The problem here is that to use.
The, um, the scanner or the file.
You have to put it in a try.
For file not found exception, but you have to catch that.
Or you have to throw it, you maybe you can throw an exception out of the current.
Method if you don't want to catch it, don't want to bother with it. So I'm gonna put this into a try.
And then we indent.
Uh, there we go. Oh, look like what it does. Okay. I'm always amazed by intelligent by these ideas, why they do so I hit enter and it wants to continue inventing at that current level for that block. Right?
But if I put the right brace in there, it says, oh, okay, let's back out the invitation to where it should be.
And so that takes care of that for you, cause I'm always used to hit backspace to get rid of my invitation and Jay graphs. So, anyway, there's my try.
And then I'm going to catch and I'm going to catch specifically we always want to try to be as specific as we can for exceptions. I could just say, catch exception.
That's going to look for everything we're looking specifically based on this error.
For file not found exceptions. So that's what I need a file.
Not found exception.
And give it a name, let's just call it. F. E.
Well, if an f, well, not found E, for exception.
And then what do we want to do? What we just report here we're gonna say system.
Dot out dot print line.
While not found, and they won't crash a program. It's a much cleaner way.
To deal with that problem. All right. And so there's my try and catch.
Now, everybody's used the system that add up, right? We know how to do that for output.
Did you know.
This is actually not this stream and there's another 1 is open for you called system dot f. E. R. R.
Print line that stands for.
Error sorry I really want to make this font bigger. I don't know how.
Okay, okay. Let's.
I'll send it back down let's go back to our Google and say, uh, intelligent.
Increase editor font size, which is a very common search control alt f for this. See, I hate it when they make you open the settings. I just want to keyboard shortcut.
Uh, control old s, wow. Control all this.
I can do that control this. All right.
Oh.
Exactly, it says go to editor general and change font size editor.
Here general and.
I don't see changed font size and there's a font size.
Hello oh, there you here. Oh, that's Holy here.
Okay all right. Um.
13 is that should be pretty quick. Let's go with the 20.
Of course, we're not gonna be to fit in anything in the window. Okay. Is that better?
Can you kind of see that? All right you want a dark background or a light background.
Let's try it like, just to see what it looks like.
Joel s. okay. That's going to be appearance in behavior, right?
No.
The downside of so they're so fricking complex now, maybe with that 1.
Yes, oh, yeah let me find a thing. There we go. What is 10 like.
Well, I'm running Windows 11. I can't use it intelligently.
That is that easier or hard, which is better 1 or 2.
Okay all right I'll do a few more and do the eye doctor thing 1 or 2, 2 or 3.
You know, they hit you with the same 1 that they hit you with earlier in the exam, right?
Which is better 1 or 2. okay. Which is better 2 or 3, which is better 3 or 4. and 4 is actually 1. they don't tell you that.
But I've picked up on that, it's like there's a pattern and I can pass the test now because I know that that's the same. And no, that's as good as that 1 was before.
I found out their secrets. Okay so I'm catching file. Not found an exception, but I need to make sure I have it up here.
Professor Brenda likes to light round better. Okay.
Import Java dot.
Uh, IO file.
Fail exception, and of course, I could just use.
The full Java dot IO dot file not found exception here. I just like this way. It's a little better. It's cleaner to use a relative thing down here. But what I was getting at here was system dot air. This is an output stream.
That is open along with system that out and system dynamic system. That is our keyboard. Of course. So, now that air is like a separate output stream.
So that if you want to create a separate log file.
Send it to somewhere else it won't go to your standard output.
And that's the idea is that for errors, you don't really want them going out the output. You want to go somewhere else. So you can create a log, you know, a a system log, some sort.
Or an error log and print the system dot error instead of system dot out.
And that way, you won't get that those errors into your output street. It'll go to the air stream instead, and you can log it, you know, you can create a file to store that stuff in. Uh, but by default, it goes to the same place of system dot L.
so, by using system of air here, we would still see this on our regular output unless we, at the beginning, changed it to point to a different place.
When you start system dot error system, without point the same location for the output.
And it's the standard, there's usually those 3 handles that you get on almost every programing language.
Standard in standard out standard here, right?
All right, so we get our exception. So now we should be able to build it.
And it should go cleanly this time. See.
Oh, isn't it really what? We're throwing the money corresponding try statement. Oh, because I lost my.
Scanner or the heck scanner SC equals new scanner.
File all right there we go and build.
And you see ant up here and does a build tool.
But it's using by default, uh, and you see, Java, 17 was used.
And it's built successfully. Okay. So now I should be able to run it.
And, you know, it's up here, created this out folder.
And there's production and this is.
More than likely my class file if I do properties, I seem to be properties for this.
Uh, I don't see anything on it, but I suspect this is my class file where I put it want to build it. I, AML is an intelligent thing here. 2. successions that I know that we don't have the best with.
All right, so let's try running it right?
Now, here's the thing with intelligent you have to get a configuration going.
Um, so let's see if I do a plus sign.
And hopefully we're going to figure this out application.
Guess I'm here there's exceptions.
They apply see if it runs it now.
Still incorrect, I guess, what is it missing? No program arguments.
Run a local machine. Okay. Continue anyway.
Okay, closed off an exception.
Well, not founder class not fat. Okay. So.
Where did you go to run it? Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, huh.
Yeah, okay.
Uh, okay, so Here's how Here's how we can do that get around that. That's what I don't like about, uh, intelligence that configuration is really pain, but if you go to the file over here under the source folder.
And you right click down here, you'll see run test exceptions, not Maine.
And so just run it from there and it does run the file and you see found I found because it can't find it. So wherever was looking for that file.
For some reason, it can't find it, so we need to figure out why it can't find the text file.
And we'll figure that out, too, in a 2nd, but that's good. That's showing their exception is working, right?
It's just we don't know where it's looking for that file, unless it's going to be under this production thing, but a load up text is there 2.
Let's see where else might look for it.
Or we just do a hard coded path. Let's do that for an hour to save time. So I'm going to go to C colon.
Backslash users back slash.
Um, my user ID.
Backslash documents and I'm going to move that file into my documents folder.
And, uh, actually, I need to do double backslash is here, because it interprets the backslash doesn't escape.
I could use forward slash is right so go back here, I'm going to copy text.
Up to my documents folder under my user ID.
Paste it there and then I'll try it again.
With the full path see how it does.
Okay, it finished because I'm not printing out the content.
I need to read in the file, so I'm going to do a string variable.
Um, data equals.
Um, let's see.
Dot deadline okay. Which we're familiar with, right?
This is a scanner it doesn't matter if it's coming from a file or keyboard.
Get line will get the stream for us output.
Data.
Let's see how that does.
Uh, didn't like get live.
Next line sorry Thank you. Professor brought up? Yes.
Not yet lined, but next 1? Yeah. Hello world finally. Okay.
So, now we have our exceptions.
We know that it works, because we already saw it happen, not sure where it's looking for that file somewhere down in this structure has to be a little more digging to figure out where that's coming from. And.
We should all be familiar with this. Right? We just haven't done it. Intelligent. We've done a J grass, which is a piece of cake, but now we've done it. Intelligence. We sell the rights.
Okay, now what I'm trying what I'm, what I'm trying to do here is present the new material, which is as of, um, uh, 7.
They added this thing called, try with resources that you'll see in a lot of regular Java code.
Difference is look after the try statement here. They have an expression in parentheses.
What happens here is that this is where you're going to do something like.
Open the file, open a network stream, open a socket and do something that could potentially fail.
Okay all right, well, what's the difference between that? And then just, you know, the try catch.
This will automatically deal with.
Closing anything that got opened in that tristate.
Because normally, when you finish, if you have errors, you have to close everything and clean up after yourself. This will do that for you.
It will remember. Okay, I open this. I open this.
And, oh, this thing doesn't exist or this thing failed when I tried to open. And so I'm going to close everything for you.
And that's why you'll see these things and parentheses, which will be the declarations.
You'll see these things on parentheses and anything that's in there that gets declared and opened in that operation will be automatically closed for you. And so this is kind of a cool feature and it's actually been around for quite a while.
Now, the way they do this is anything that you do this operation with, in this parentheses, it implements this interface called auto closeable.
Which says, I'm allowed to close things automatically. I don't have to have somebody call clothes on it for me.
Okay, and so as an example of this.
This try, we are opening a file, a zip file, which is something in the job detail that you can do, which is just a zipped up file name, a compress file. So we're opening this zip file.
Okay declaring it is variable equals new job you till zip file with a name.
So, we opened that we created that.
And then we're creating this buffer writer we'll get into buffer writers. Next week we can talk about file IO.
And so we've got the stuff that's opened up.
After the thing in the Tri finishes, and this happens, whether it's something fails or not.
Okay, it will close everything for us.
So, in our basic programming course, is, we're all saying, if you open something, you got to close it, make sure you always close and in the in the industry, that's the thing, right? Because if you don't close it, you'll get into resource leaks.
If you don't close the file and you're in the loop, and you're opening that file a 1000 times, you're going to have 1000 file handles sitting in that program that are not being used. They're taking up system resources.
And so this is kind of the thing they put in as a protective measure, because programmers being human.
Always well, not always, but a lot of times forgot to close up after themselves.
And so that's the purpose of this thing. So this is to just familiarize with you with this with you so that, you.
Understand when you see the parentheses sized expression in a try before the curly brace, that's a try with resources expression.
Right. So, after the block inside the try finishes, the resources are closed. Um.
And if you still need to run the catch or a, finally in there.
It will also run those, but at that point, those things are closed out.
You don't have to worry about dealing with those so we can do that. I think let's try this again. Kind of. We get here, but let's see if this works by doing a trial with resources in our Java program.
So we had to do the try here.
And here's why we are creating the scanner operation.
Okay, and so instead of doing it down in the try, I'm going to put it here in parentheses scanner.
Let's see, and I'm not sure scanner does auto, but we'll find out real quick when we try to do this.
File and get rid of this.
Inside the try, now, the syntax on this can be a little weird. Let me see if I've got it right for a single.
Yeah, you need the semi colon inside the parenthesis here. So you see my scanner.
Operation with the semi colon is included inside the parentheses. I took it out of the Tri statements.
Let's see if this builds my syntax is correct.
Intelligent build project.
Maybe you just built it that fast. See, we can run it.
Okay. Hey, man. All right so this is an example of travel insurance. We just moved it out of the tray statement and put it in the parentheses and we can, we can do multiple things in here. We can do as many of these as we want to.
Separate them with a semi colon and put them in the parentheses.
Okay, so let's try with the resources.
Do all good on that? Pretty simple.
Other things they added.
When we do a catch, we can use a vertical bar. Remember the vertical bar was the logical or.
Uh, actually, for logical those 2 vertical bars, a single logical murder party. You can do multiple exception types in a single catch statement.
See, if I have an example here yeah, I do. Okay.
So this is, um, here we are doing the scanner.
And you got some stuff going on in the try, but the scanner operation is in the parentheses for the try with resources and the cash look over catching.
I exception or input.
Mismatch exception, and then you just give 1 variable name for either 1, whichever 1, it catches it assigned to 1. it catches. 1st, it assigns to that variable and that you can use it.
So, if you remember from 2551 or number 1, you had, you know, layers of catch statements for all the different exceptions. You can put them all at 1, single exception. Like this.
And then the other thing added to, this is interesting.
Think about when you throw an exception. Okay and in your catch code, you're doing some operations with some resources.
And what if something happens there, what, if, as you're processing in this catch.
Another exception happens and they added this thing called get suppressed. So, those other exceptions basically well, they're probably going to crash a program, but this kind of creates an array.
Of exceptions that if you want to say, okay, did anything happen underneath this other exception that I caught and you can declare this thing called, which is.
Uh, basically the interface that an exception implements and you can call this.
Get suppressed thing for this exception variable and find out if anything else happen as you were dealing with that exception when it got thrown out.
This gives into layers of, you know, you don't want all sorts of bad stuff happening, and especially in multiples, but sometimes multiple bad things can happen. Not just 1. it's not always a simple situation. Especially in Multi, multi, threaded code.
And so this is something that's kind of a, a good thing to throw in to catch.
Statement to to see if anything else bad needs to be.
Dealt with, or at least, you know, show me some information give me some information here. So, here, I've got the array that gets suppressed returns and if it's greater than a 0 length, I'm going to loop through it.
And I'm going to say, hey, and by the way this stuff was also happening when that exception occurred. And Here's, you know.
The stuff that you didn't see.
Okay so this just are just some new exception features that were added in, uh, or, but most basic or 1st, job of courses don't cover, because they're kind of advanced concepts.
All right, but again, part of the goal of this course is to show things that you might see in real Java code.
Because the stuff we do in 200,551 and top 2800 is.
Foundational it's like, okay, basic language stuff, but in the real world, it gets complicated.
And so these are some of the things that you might see there.
All right next thing to review.
Is our land to express.
These are our anonymous functions.
Dynamically allocated created to run as we run programs and this was and we do cover these in 200,551 and 2100. now we.
Just introduce these a couple years ago, but there are things that you'll see commonly in code and so you need to recognize them when you see it. There's a lot of different ways. We use them.
But the main thing is that it's a streamlined way to do a function. So you don't have to clear separate method.
They can be very, very simple and they're also available on C +, + and C sharp as well. So it's not just and are Python. Also. We teach them on Python too.
Okay, and so this an example of a very simple Lambda operator where we're defining effectively a method.
It's going to return something and we're assigning it. Um, we're giving it a name.
There is no parameters. We're not passing anything in, but we can.
And all it does is return, this number is kind of a hard code or return by. So no matter what you do is just going to return 1, 2 3.45.
And it's all declared in a single line. Do I have you clear a single method for it?
And I don't know if we still have these slides in 2551 or 2800, but I'd like to put this in. It's not a land. It is a Lambda. Okay. But they're also called closures. That's the, the formal name for them uh, anonymous inner classes.
Not covered, there's a little bit in the FX unit. I think that they used to talk about in that. An anonymous in her class is basically in a Java program.
Uh, you know, we've got this class here test exceptions.
And down here somewhere, I might have a.
Class that does something. It's just braces. There's no name for it.
We do it for a lot of event handlers and things like this.
I can show an example from FX, but it's anonymous and it's like writing code in here that's treated as a class is compiled, like a class. But as a model as it has no name, and we can access methods and stuff in that.
So, anyway, that's similar to that. And the main important criteria for Atlanta expression is that we use single access methods. Sam.
Interfaces the interface that you implement a Lambda with.
Can only have 1 method, has to have 1 method, but no more than 1 method. It has to be non.
Uh, ambiguous in terms of what it does for the execution and so we call them interfaces.
Single abstract method, uh, you notice here this is a wall, but not Orlando so that's why, but.
Thanks right there. So it's an interface. It contains a single method. They're very simple.
Okay, when we get into multiple threaded applications, we will look at the Runnable interface. This.
Runs a thread of execution.
And the interface is called Runnable and there's 1 method run.
And we can create land to expressions with this interface.
Okay, so it's a Sam or single abstract method interface and again we get to multi thread and you'll see examples of this.
So, simple example, this class Lambda tester.
I am declaring a, uh, an instance of an interface now.
Down here is the interface interface simple cost it. What does this do? It? Does a method called get value that returns a double.
The implementation is left, left up to whoever implements the.
Interface okay. And remember.
Normally, when you declare an interface, you have to say, implements.
For your class, right? Implement the interface but you don't see that here.
What you do see is an actual declaration of a reference we're able to that interface.
Which is okay, well, there's nothing there. I mean, this is not doing anything. It's an abstract.
Method, so how can we do that? Well, you have to give it an implementation.
And so here we are saying, okay, simple cost is a method.
That returns it double, it is called get value.
So, simple costs that here, we're declaring a land to expression.
That says, okay for this interface that get value method is always going to return 1, 2, 3, 4.4 or 5.
And then we can use this as.
An object basically to call the method with and we print out a simple costs, equals dot get value, which is going to return.
123.4 or 5, not really exciting, but it's just demonstrating how simple these can look. The Landa operator is the hyphen and the right arrow.
Okay, this is the return value if you have parameters will go in here.
So, if we do this, let's just throw this in and run it in a separate class here.
See, how fast I can do this intelligent.
I'm going to add a class here.
New Java class.
And it's called, let him do tester and I'll just plug in the code.
Nope, that's not going to work because it's come up with a slide. Yeah.
You see, we can paste just the text.
Uh, do we have an option to paste text? Special, plain text. There we go no, it's still not working. It's still got the weird character set. It.
Shoot, let's go here.
It's good a word and then copy it from there. So you can put it in there.
Okay, that looks better. All right. And.
Run it run name to test remain see what we do here.
All right and there we are simple concept 1, 2 3.4 or 5.
So, simple concept, and as you get value as defined by this.
Returns 123.45, and then we can redefine it here if we want to as the program executes.
And it will return 6, 7, 8.
Point 9, this is to do that.
And then print it out again with the same.
I'll be preference in the same method call.
And you can see, we've redefined the behavior of that method just by changing.
The Lambda expression was declared, so these are intended to just be quick and dirty on the fly methods that you don't have to do the formal declaration formal syntax for.
And they can change their values as a.
So the methods to find, uh, Lambda expressions, have no name.
Um, well, no, we just kept it just kind of get value. Okay the functional interface the Sam interfaces the target type. This is all just the basic.
Kind of the academic definition of lamb does.
Compile it treats it like, it's an object instantiated from that anonymous inner class thing.
And it takes these steps to process it. It looks at the target type the parameters and in the statements that are in there.
Um.
And here's the thing if you do the wrong type, right? This is this interface. Remember back up here returns a double.
Does he expected behavior so down here instead of returning 1 to 3.45, we're trying to say it returns a string test.
But you see, the compiler won't let you do that, I'll say, no, that's not compatible because it's supposed to be a double. So why don't you do anything wonky with it right here if you're trying to do something different in the application, as it executes.
And again, these are dynamic. So, here we got interface show string that's going to show a string. We pass a string in. It doesn't return anything.
Okay, and then so in my program, I declare.
A reference to that interface and I'm going to test string here.
And then I create a Lambda out of it. So s. S. is just my show string object reference.
S is, um.
Just a name, we give the parameter and this is dynamic. You can call it. Whatever you want to is expecting you to pass in a string.
You don't have to call it s even though we declare it as this up here you call it whatever you want. But here we're saying, okay, the parameter that we're passing into that method.
It expects a string is gonna be called s.
And we're going to print out s and so we're defining the behavior of show stream.
Based on this Lamda, we're going to say whenever you call that Lambda that method in the Lambda.
Print out whatever s is and then we do SS, which is Orlando.
Dot show string the method and then we pass in this test string.
And executes this code to produce the word test.
And then I changed the definition of the Lambda now. I don't want it just to print out the string. I want to print out a prefix variation on show stream, and then print out the string parameter and we call it again and now it prints out variation.
On so you see, it's changing his behavior.
As we execute the program for that interface.
And then we get into the parameters and parameters can get interesting syntax kids kind of weird.
Um, for this 1, our interface is called simple double.
We're turning a double and we're passing in a double. The function of the method name is called double value.
So, declare a reference to that interface.
As an object reference, and then we create the Lambda the parameter. We're going to call it Val. And again, we can call it. Whatever we want to is taking it here is D, but we're calling it value here. You can change to whatever as long as it's a double that's all that matters.
And they were saying, okay, so this function, this method is going to return.
The value doubled, that's our definition of it right there.
And then printed out and you see SD dot double by we pass and a double.
Okay, so this is pretty simple for the parameters.
We can, um, add more stuff to it.
For this, uh, and we can also make it as a explicit as we want. So, this is what I just did, right? The parameter we called, Val that's being passed in.
At all times too, if you want to be a little more explicit, okay. Put in parentheses rapid you may really explicit. Yeah. It's a double that's what it's expecting. And so this is all exactly the same thing, but you can see how.
Abbreviated, we can make it if we want to. Now, if you have multiple statements.
Then you need the curly braces, just like it's a 4 loop, right?
You have to have braces around so, in here, we're multiplying by 2 and then we're turning Val, which is exactly what this does. This is just a different way to do it, but there's 2 statements.
And so we have the semi colon terminated statements inside the braces, and you have to have a semi colon after that just like we have up here.
Because braces, normally, you don't have a semi colon after it, but now we do is kind of an exceptional syntax there.
When you get into multiple parameters, then you have to put parentheses around. So here are multiplier interface. We've got a method called multiply or passing to editors and multiplying together. Pretty simple. And we return the editor product of those.
Okay, and Orlando is.
It's called M, the parameters are the 2 managers, but we have to have parentheses around it because there's 2 now.
Land expression and then, do we need the curly braces? I.
Don't I'm not sure we can try it without. So there's only 1 statement in here, right? It might work without but because of the parentheses parameters that might require, let's put that in there and see if we can get that.
Um, see yours that way or not. Let me put my interface in there.
So, I'm going to do over here I'm going to go to new.
Job class laptop.
And.
And a multiple.
Okay, I'm put my interface up here. I'm not gonna make it public.
What everybody just do paste text.
Still wants those get rid of it.
Okay here. Okay. I think they cleaned it up.
Here's my interface or my yeah, my interface.
Curly braces.
And then our class is doing the multiplier down here.
So, public static.
Main string ours.
And I'll paste that in. All right so declare parameters expression.
Let's get it working for us and we'll test that if we need those braces or not.
Yeah, I'm trying to get to it before. I do, um, random multiplier run this.
All right, so there's my multiplication. So now the question was.
Do we need to brace it? Cause? It's a single statement. I don't.
Well, okay, let's do this. 1st, jump on something else. Um, turn it red. It looks like it might not like that.
Yeah, illegal startup expression does it need the return statement even though.
Nope okay. So quirks in the syntax of this.
With the parameters it.
Was okay with the braces for the return statement, but if you took the braces off, it didn't like it with the return statement but you don't need the return statement. I mean, it's assuming it knows.
This is a single access, um, method or single abstract method.
Uh, is going to return 1 thing and.
The compiler is smart enough to know that all I can do is multiply and return this product. That's what it's supposed to do. And so that's what it does. So, you see that these can get kind of cryptic, but they're also more efficient in terms of just writing this stuff dynamically as you go.
What happens a lot is that okay, you've tested this thing out and then you actually put it in the phone. I said, later to make sure that, you know, it's kind of, um.
In written in stone, you know, versus just keeping us alanda. It really depends on how complicated it is.
What happens we try to find a land on a non Sam interface in other words, if there's more than 1 method in the interface.
Well, it gets confused.
And here, it's saying, it's not a functional interface and again, a functional interface is a or a single abstract method interface. You can't have more than 1 method in there if you want to create a lamp out of it. Okay, so that's the rules for Java.
Might be different for other languages. Okay, so that's the review material and, uh.
A little bit of extra content any questions on that stuff.
My gosh at 730 already. Okay. Let's take a break.
For about 10 minutes and come back and see how we can do with the practice exercise.
And then we'll get you on your way. So okay, so in canvas, you want to go to the.
There's both get and get have assignment, which again is just kind of a reference thing, but then the greater assignment.
We want to go to the link here and accept the assignment and that will put you in the classroom.
They'll say, select yourself from the list below or skip to the next step and you want to skip to the next step if you're not on the list and then it puts you in the classroom. So now I'm going to look in the classroom.
And just see where everybody is. Hopefully they're all in the classroom.
Refresh let's see.
See, I put the okay.
Uh, let's look at the classroom here. Yeah.
I have to.
Hmm. Okay. I'm like, oh, there we go. Okay. Yeah, Nicholas, I've got you link to students.
Uh, I think I didn't know what I need to do here. Let me go to students.
Yeah, so okay my add show and see if this works Joe.
Okay, ad, roster entrance. Alright now, Joe got you and I'm going to link.
Your things thing, right? Okay.
I'll let you slide on that for now. Let's try to change it.
Yeah okay. Who's OCC links too?
Okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna put you in here.
Okay, so I'm going to go to my I'm going to let a recording this. I can go look at it myself.
All right, so I'm going to add, okay, I'm gonna add Nicholas next cause he goes next on the list.
Simpson, uh, and I've seen me do 2 at a time here. Uh.
Hello.
Yes, okay. So these.
All right now I go and I linked the account. Nicholas is okay, well, that's pretty obvious there.
Yeah, and then OCC links what is OCC links.
Oh, okay, okay.
All right, Gustavo where are you? Oh, I got an unlink account. Let's see.
Gustavo, I see you now, right?
Update students and you stop.
Okay, and then I link you're the only 1 left so that's got to be you and there we go. All right, so I see in the classroom that's good.
Now, has it created a repository yet? So it was saying I was working on it right? Refresh your page. What do you see.
Do you see files? Okay do you see the read me?
Welcome to read me how you're in the getting get up. I want you back into the module 1 assignment.
I was like, that's not what I put in the.
Really should have the instructions for the assignment no,
but the module 1 assignment.
Yeah, okay so the read me.
There's nothing in there. Okay, let me see, wait 3 months.
All right maybe I didn't put it in there. Oh, let me go. Look.
Yeah, or is that the read me file or is it no, there's an instructions document.
There's an extract a word document look at your files again. You see a word document in there.
I think you put it in a word document, let's go to.
Practice yeah.
So, I'm going to the the repository now.
Call when you put on the 1st yeah.
That's a word document. Can you get to it? Can you open it and click on.
What did you download it?
Okay, okay, well, what we want to do.
Is we want to create a local repository and it shouldn't bring that down anyway? Yeah. That's what we're looking for. Okay. Good.
So, let's when you come back, just I'll, I'll show you.
Okay.
The module 1.
Module 1.
The last month the upgraded for every time.
Okay, so go on there.
All right, so we want to do is we want to create a local repository and we want to clone that.
So, you can work on it locally right now, what do you want to do on the classroom system? On your laptop? On Verizon?
I'm going to do it on horizon, but because I'm not a student, it's gonna be a little bit different experience here. So we'll see how that works.
So, I'm going to go to the command line and where do we want to put it? Well, that's up to you. I'm going to go to my.
Um, documents, folder again, users.
The user ID, and this is on the horizon.
Documents Kay, so.
Here's the thing, I'm not sure of.
I'm not sure if I need to initialize a local repository and then clone it or if I just clone it and it's going to create the repository for me.
Because I haven't done enough Git on that. So I'm going to go with.
Clone for now, now I need the URL, which you should have, you're gonna have your own private repository right? So you have a URL for that. I'm going to use my repository.
So, I'm going to find it. What are you doing to be here?
It's going to get her up.
All right, so here is this this 1.
So, I've got my URL and I'm going to grab that.
You're not in the URL, so you just copy it. So we're in here, I can copy the URL.
So, there we go, thank you. All right.
Usually, it's going to be different, you're not going to use the same 1, right? Because you got your own repository for this and I'm gonna do paste it in here and see how this works.
Okay, so now I've got the repository.
And is this actually a repository get status?
Okay, branch master. Okay. So it says it created the repository so, you know, if you're doing an empty repository, you do get a nit dot.
For the current folder, it makes your poster this empty there.
This is how you can do it, you can clone it so I cloned it from that URL. So if you're in your repository.
You can go to like Nicholas said, you have a code drop down copy that URL means you say Git space, clone space URL, and it will clone onto your system. And now I've got a repository. I've got the working folder where I can do my work.
Okay, now if I modify something, for instance.
This is the upgraded practice exercise solution, which we need to look at still. But, um.
Let's look at the instructions here. I've read the word document up somewhere.
No, but we want to upload those changes after you modify locally, right?
Because again, if you're on horizon or the classroom systems, you're going to lose it.
When you leave here, so you want to make sure you get a load it up. Okay. So, um.
So Here's a practice exercise. We're gonna design and implement a program uses a Lambda.
To implement a Sam interface with a method that sums up the elements of an array. So here's the interface here. It's called erase summer.
And the method is summer returns an ENT.
And it takes an energy array as a parameter. Okay.
And so, um, we're going to.
Do a simple test, create an array with just simple managers in it and test that summer land expression then we're going to read a.
Csv file that has the data and add up the values and the CSV file with a separate class. Now, the separate class can just be in.
The same file as you're.
Other class that does the land expression, and I'll show you how to do that. If you don't remember from 2551, you can only have 1 public class in a source file.
Okay, but you can have as many other classes as long as you're not public and so for us to keep it simple, we don't need to create a bunch of separate class files. We're just gonna put it right in the same file as our main class here. The output is going to look like this.
Okay so given this array, it adds up it's 25 given this array as well. This is where it read in the CSV file. So the CSB file is here in the repository. It's very simple type.
Managers the CSV. Okay. And it's just got the same numbers. I have my test rate. So if you look at the code.
Open that was, um, watching a jigger here. Um, uh.
Intelligent can't remember his name file open and let's see what it does with that file cause it's probably going to move it somewhere or copy it.
Uh, users, ideally, I would start intelligent from inside that.
Repository and work from there.
Um, we've got what we got, we have documents.
And the repository and the Java file.
Okay, so there is the file so this is the solution to the practice exercise that I give you.
And now I want to make my font smaller, but I got to go in and change this.
I don't want to do that. So here's the interface at the top. Now. Look what intelligence does it collapses? The import statements they're there.
You can expand them, but to save space, it just puts the little ellipses there. So don't.
Think remove my imports. No, they're still there. You just have to expand it to see it.
Okay, so I'm importing the scanner.
Importing your raise in reporting you to Ray list.
Right so Here's my test. Ray, this is the thing I want to test with to make sure the land works before I read in for the file.
That way I know the land is working and if a problem occurs in the file, and here's my land of expression. So.
Every summer is declared the object, the variable names Aes for a race summer.
And I'm passing in a parameter. It's an array.
And call it whatever I want based on the interface, I just know it's capacity or right this is the imager wrapper outage right now the printers you can't store perimeters in an array list.
Okay, so I'm passing in a ray of managers and.
My son variable, right? The accumulator everybody remembers that hope.
All right. Accumulators top 1000. okay. And I do a simple for each loop.
I'm looping through each element as a manager, and I'm adding it to the sub and then I would try this out. So, my land is a little is not 1 of the simple 1 liners.
But it is, you know, dynamic created here.
And so I'm going to use this as the object and then I do a print so print the sum of and I use the erased class here and I imported that. So I don't have to use the full class. I'm getting rid of this.
I used your raise class just to print out the array. So I see. So I see the contents.
Using the 2 string method I pass that array in there. And then here's my Lambda as dot summer.
And I pass you right and it prints out this up, or should print on the side.
So, assuming this works correctly.
Then I go down here and now I'm going to create a class that reads in from a CSV. Csv has comma separated value very common. Okay and they have a, um.
Uh, the CSV readers a class I'm creating down here.
And there's a method, uh, there's a, I'll show you how to do that.
It's not really a class for that. I created a class read for the CSV file, this manages CSV files. Okay. And this method I passed in the file name.
And I return on a ray list of strings, because that's what it reads in from a CSV file. No matter what data type is there. You're going to get a string then you need to convert it to numbers later.
Okay, so I read in a string. No, I clear a token. A token is just a.
A piece of data, so it's a comma separated value file. So every token is going to be the thing that extracts this.
Separated by the Congress, each value that extract is called a token. So common phrase, when we parse the file, we extract tokens from it.
Now, because I need the, the, the scanner here to read the file, I have to put it in a try.
A new scanner with a file name.
And here's the thing that I can do with the scanner, the scanner provides this delimiter.
So, if you want to separate tokens by a specific delimiter, what should be a tab it could be a dot. In this case it's common cause it's the most common 1, then it's saying, okay, so when you read this file.
Read in the tokens that are defined by the, the Congress.
They're separate and then we have this has next.
Method which says is their data is still to read.
Okay, while not in the file basically, is what it's saying. So, while there is some data in to read from the scanner.
Get the next token, is there a reason in this terms in the string and then I'm adding it to my realist remember the ad method for the array list. You just add it there and that's all. You gotta do to add it to this.
So, now I'm adding each integer object to this array. There's actually string objects right now, because that's I was reading them in.
And then I close my scanner and if there's an exception, I'm not really doing anything, but I got to catch it anyway. So it's there.
Okay, and then I return the re list and so this will read that CSV file.
And return a bunch of strengths I also declared another class down here because I need to convert the string tokens to editors.
And so this number collection class again, it's not public so I can put it in the same file.
I'm declaring an method called 2 array, which takes that array list of strengths.
And it returns an array of editors. Okay. I get a size of the Ray list.
I declare an array of that size.
And then I just do a simple loop with an index move through each element of that array list.
And I'm using energy to parse, which will extract the manager from a string.
Remember each token is a string and parse it is a little more forgiving in terms of if there's white space around it or some other stuff, it'll pick it out of there. Okay this should be clean. In fact, I know it's clean because I created the data file and so you just see, I'm.
Adding to this array and using that index increment the index as I looped through each item to add to theory.
And if the part that fails, you get this number format exception.
Okay, and so when I'm done here, I've got this IRA object, which is in array of managers.
And I returned that, so I've converted that string array list to an array.
Because that's what my.
Erase summer, once as a parameter and now I can call it with an array. So, here I declare the array list of strings, and I use a CSV reader to read the file and there's the file.
And then I create the array by calling and these are all static. So I just use a class name here. Right? Csb reader.
Number collection, and then 2 editor array I pass the Ray list in and I get back the array of managers and I just print. I'm just like, I did before this again, because I don't need it.
2 string to show the contents and as summer, and I should get exactly the same results because the contents of this file are the same as this array that I prepared here to test and so run this that I run it already. I don't know.
Uh, and I don't run that run this 1. okay.
And there's something out there we get to it. No, that's the wrong thing, ran the wrong programs because I don't have this in my project.
Uh, how do I add this to a project? Where is that file? Let's see. Let me just add it.
Add add on, add it to my projects.
Not letting me do it. Oh, wait.
My favorites.
Okay, this is really smart. I'll just drag and drop it into source.
Nope, Jag jump off into org at all.
No, okay.
Who's asking for a J grasp?
I want to find out how to add these find in files.
We're, we're crowdsourcing this, we should be able to figure this out.
Okay, uh, up here, maybe.
Find usage is 3 factor add 2 favorites.
A history, we'll close it for a sec.
Source new.
Okay, when all else fails intelligence.
And file to watch it.
Right. Click the note no, I don't want to create new add a file.
Okay, in the project tab, clipped it down to expand the tools gallery under project files add files.
Okay, do we see the tools.
Tools tools still not seeing it.
Project tab clicked the down arrow to expand the tool's gallery.
This is the project debt down here okay. Tools? No. So that solution is not.
Effectively project files.
All right, well, then I'll just do the direct way. I'm going to take the.
Java file here and copy it to the project.
Under idea projects, test exceptions.
Source and paste.
Did not get it, right? Yeah.
Copy.
Source and paste.
All right, so this there now and sees it here.
I don't like I shouldn't be at it. Well, maybe it doesn't like having to point to a remote location for dot main. Let's see what happens here.
What did we get? We got could not find the file now why isn't it?
Crashing well, because I handled.
I found an exception, right go to my.
Later in the summer class? No, the CSV reader.
Okay, so when I did the try.
I didn't report an error, so this is where okay by taking the shortcut route, just being lazy not doing anything. If it catches that exception.
I don't know what happened system dot err dot print.
Cannot or file dot file. Okay.
Just take care of that and then run it again.
And now we see well, not found now.
You put it in a red I wonder if that's because I'm going to system dot err right?
Okay, so look at that.
When I go to system dot dot front line, this font is black, and they're going to system that air. It puts it in red.
To emphasize it, so that's the kind of cool feature for that, but it won't happen. You know, if you're just running console course, it's just the ID.
But now I need to open, I'm going to use that full path. Like I do before.
Obviously, it's not looking, I got to find out where it looks for that file. I'm not sure. Right. It's not under the source folder though.
Is looking somewhere else for it may be in the target in the build directory.
Which would make sense. Um, but let me pull this out.
And put it up at the.
Documents level, just to be consistent and then change a code to look at the full path.
In order to put the path path is up here so it's gonna be C and where you can use and use. Backslash you have to use double backslash cause this is.
Uh, Windows and interprets it as a backslash escape.
But you can use, you should be able to use a forward slash.
Users single documents.
Editors all right. Let's try this.
And there we go, so see, I have exactly the same results when it reads the CSB file. So that's what we're expecting.
So any questions on what this is doing.
Hey, this is again reading somebody else's code. I should put an idea up here.
I don't know who I am. Okay.
And this is showing that I've got a.
To non public classes to find the the same and the same with the interface.
By not declaring it public, it can be put in the same file. Otherwise it has to be in the file by itself. And if you look at a compile here.
Try to remember where I am at and the idea of projects go into the build folder.
Out production.
Test exceptions. Okay. So look at, it creates the classes, even though.
They're not separate files. It creates the C. S. V. reader.
It's really hard not to put CVS keep getting confused with the drug store, but a C. S. V.
Hey, and the land the summer, and then the number collection class so they create separate class files for each of those, even though they're in the same file, it'll split them out into separate class files where you want to build it.
So that's the ungraded exercise. So now you have that in your repository.
And what you want to do is you want to go to the graded assignment instructions.
And those, we can find my canvas session here. Somewhere there we go.
Okay, so Here's what you do for the greater the assignment.
Um, you've got the basis for the code, you've got the practice exercise solutions.
Make sure you get it running and everything's working. Fine on that. What you're going to do is you're going to add another interface in the same file. Just don't make it public. It's going to be called.
Well, it's going to some, an array of doubles instead of managers. You can call it whatever you want.
Add the code in the Lambda summer class.
The duplicates what we did with the imager array.
And do it with a double, or right now, so you're gonna do a test array that sums doubles and then read from a CSB file with doubles and it with the same data to make sure that works. Okay. So that means you need to add.
Uh, the CSB file should work for both.
Because you're reading strengths, so that works as is you don't need to touch that method, but the number collection class.
You need to add another method, just like the 1 that converts a string to integers. Now you need to do on the credit diversity string that doubles returns. The doubles are right.
Okay, and so that's the stuff you need to add and then.
I want you to add, I want you to change and the CSP reader. We have the file not found thing. I want you to change that. Try catch to use try with resources, which just means you put the scanner declaration up into the parentheses up above that.
Okay, take it out to the other. That's how you gotta do for that.
Right, right so and here's your doubles dot CSV file.
Again, it's just a simple comma separated.
Let's see if I can read it. Let's see how smart campuses here.
Yeah, there's 19 bucks is taking it. Yeah, it's tough.
I don't think it's going to do it. If you download it, it's going to open it in Excel, which is fine.
And you just see has got 12345 values, different floating back and declare an array with the same values and you can test to make sure that the same then, you know, it's working correctly.
And then the other part is, okay, now you need to figure out how to get it up into your repository.
Okay, so if you go to the the quick reference, unless you want to go through the whole GitHub course thing what I gave you.
A quick reference to see what we can use from this.
No, you don't need to do this. That's creating an empty repository. Um.
I, I not sure if when you do the clone.
If it's going to do the association with remote repository, if you're just creating 1 from scratch and you wanted to link it up with your remote on GitHub, you would have to do this stuff or you add the repository and you set your username.
You might have to do these steps, you know, just play around and see what happens. Okay. And then when you make your changes.
Which you should just be changing the Java file, right? You do a Git add.
Dot, and it will just add all the files, or you just do a Git add in the name of the Java file and then we'll add that it will stage it.
Okay, and then you commit it, you put a little script, your comment what did you do? Okay added.
The doubles thing, right? So that commits it.
Then when you're all done, assuming that this is done for you by the clone, if not, you have to do it separately. So you're setting this remote and origin. So you say, get remote add origin.
And this is going to be where you set your, what repository? And so locally.
You do get push and minus you and origin just literally the words origin and master. Okay, because up here, you're setting it up here to do that. And so you just say, get push minus you origin and master.
That should push it up to your remote repository. And then you should have those changes there.
If you don't email me, let me know, let's see, we work it out but, you know, if this goes smooth, then we are, like I say, we're establishing a precedent here for all the programming courses for this college and.
Yeah, I'll put your name to the top. Okay. Thanks for, you know, like in the front of a book, you know, for moving forward thanks to these people for helping me out all this stuff because that's what we're doing.
Yeah.
Well, even the semester, you never know right?
So so that's all we got.
Unless there's any questions uh, we're good. It's 821.
Yes, it's going to be Java spring.
Yes.
Yeah, now, when I taught it last year, we didn't do.
Uh, we just did it locally and then submitted the canvas. Right? So That'll be changed. But yes, that's what we'll be doing. And we doing things like, uh, spring boot.
You know, starting projects doing things like, um.
Uh, job of persistence and database operations, and they have like, a little in memory database you can run and do stuff with it. And so we'll be going through that.
And most of what we ended up doing last summer is.
We sat here in the classroom and work through the exercises.
Or work through the stuff that you're doing, and I just said, okay, submit it. And that was good enough. You know, it was like, you're going off and doing a lot of homework offline. There was a few projects we did out of class, but most of it was just doing class. Now. If it's online.
Uh, uh, hopefully I'll dig up the videos from that semester or otherwise. We'll just have to have instructions. Redo it follow along.
Okay, yep, that class is going to be on line.
Yeah, I mean, we could run it on Wednesday nights and go from like, 9 to midnight. If you want to do it.
Security won't be real happy about it.
Nicholas wouldn't be happy about that either. He was losing it after about the 1st hour so I've ever get says, no.
Uh, uh.
It I don't think I'm gonna run. I'm gonna have time cause I've got.
Yeah, yeah, so we're getting the content for that.
But, you know, it'll be intelligent, so you'll have this all set up and ready to go that.
Well, yeah, professor brought us on Friday night. Um.
I don't know, I mean, we could do synchronous on line at some point and I'm always available for help.
You know, it's, it's like, uh, you can try it.
Then the 1st week, does it go? Well, then, you know their mind.
So, but you didn't you don't want to.
Sure, um.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay oh, wow. Yeah. Okay.
Yeah, I wish I could offer these every semester cause. Yeah.
Remember you have to email email net because I'll have to override you because you won't have a prereq, but.
Like say, you'll be 3 weeks ahead with this course. So it's like, that's a Pre. Req good.
So, I can make a screen shot.
Yeah, Rafael, you can ask professor broader. She took it last year. She made a so.
Okay.
So, thanks for coming in and thanks for being patient and we'll get smoother as we go along. I know.
And again, let me know if you have any problems with that, get himself.
Professor brought on says intelligent was the hardest part of the job. The 3 of this class will give you the experience.
Well, spring is.
Intelligent is like, really tightly integrated with spring.
So, it's both. Yeah, well, I actually had a a few students that graduated and were in the industry.
They came back and said, you gotta teach spring and intelligence is like 1 of the most popular professional out there. So that's why it's so complicated because it's used in the real world, right?
And so they have to be some have to have something really powerful. So it's a bigger learning curve but it's a good tool to know.
Yeah.